docs/each-tool-explained/fetchLiveApiResponse.md, before:

# fetchLiveApiResponse Tool

## Overview

Executes a live HTTP request to your API using `API_BASE_URL`. Optionally attaches `Authorization: Bearer ${API_AUTH_TOKEN}` when `includeAuthToken` is true.

## Tool Signature

```typescript
fetchLiveApiResponse({
  endpoint: string,             // e.g. "/v1/users"
  method?: "GET"|"POST"|"PUT"|"PATCH"|"DELETE",
  requestBody?: any,            // JSON-serializable body for non-GET
  queryParams?: Record<string, string>,
  includeAuthToken?: boolean    // requires API_AUTH_TOKEN to be set
});
```

## Required Environment

- `API_BASE_URL`: base URL for your API (e.g., `https://api.example.com`)
- `API_AUTH_TOKEN`: only required when `includeAuthToken` is true

## Response

Returns a JSON text payload including:

- `success`: boolean (HTTP ok)
- `method`, `url`
- `responseDetails`: `{ status, statusText, headers, timing, url, method }`
- `data`: parsed JSON or raw text

## Examples

```typescript
// GET with auth and query params
await fetchLiveApiResponse({
  endpoint: "/v1/users",
  method: "GET",
  queryParams: { page: "1" },
  includeAuthToken: true,
});

// POST without auth
await fetchLiveApiResponse({
  endpoint: "/v1/users",
  method: "POST",
  requestBody: { name: "Jane" }
});
```

## Tips

- Use `searchApiDocumentation` first to find the right path and request shape
- If docs lack response schemas, validate with `fetchLiveApiResponse`

Commit message:

feat: requiresAuth in api.searchEndpoints; dynamic auth only; Setup UI env tab + JSON validation; debug logs; bump to 1.4.0

docs/each-tool-explained/fetchLiveApiResponse.md, after:

# fetchLiveApiResponse Tool

## Overview

Executes a live HTTP request to your API using `API_BASE_URL`. Optionally attaches `Authorization: Bearer <token>` when `includeAuthToken` is true. Token source: dynamic via Chrome extension from browser storage using `AUTH_STORAGE_TYPE` + `AUTH_TOKEN_KEY` (and optional `AUTH_ORIGIN` for cookies).

## Tool Signature

```typescript
fetchLiveApiResponse({
  endpoint: string,             // e.g. "/v1/users"
  method?: "GET"|"POST"|"PUT"|"PATCH"|"DELETE",
  requestBody?: any,            // JSON-serializable body for non-GET
  queryParams?: Record<string, string>,
  includeAuthToken?: boolean    // uses dynamic retrieval when configured
});
```

## Required Environment

- `API_BASE_URL`: base URL for your API (e.g., `https://api.example.com`)
- Set `AUTH_STORAGE_TYPE` (`localStorage|sessionStorage|cookies`) and `AUTH_TOKEN_KEY` (and `AUTH_ORIGIN` for cookies) to enable token retrieval
- Use `requiresAuth` from `searchApiDocumentation` results to decide whether to set `includeAuthToken`

## Response

Returns a JSON text payload including:

- `success`: boolean (HTTP ok)
- `method`, `url`
- `responseDetails`: `{ status, statusText, headers, timing, url, method }`
- `data`: parsed JSON or raw text

## Examples

```typescript
// GET with auth and query params
await fetchLiveApiResponse({
  endpoint: "/v1/users",
  method: "GET",
  queryParams: { page: "1" },
  includeAuthToken: true,
});

// POST without auth
await fetchLiveApiResponse({
  endpoint: "/v1/users",
  method: "POST",
  requestBody: { name: "Jane" }
});
```

## Tips

- Use `searchApiDocumentation` first to find the right path and request shape
- If docs lack response schemas, validate with `fetchLiveApiResponse`
