docs/SETUP_GUIDE.md, before:

**Note:** Keep Chrome DevTools (F12) open on your target tab when using browser/UI tools.

## 🚀 Quick Setup

### 1) Run with npx (recommended)

```bash
npx @winds-ai/autonomous-frontend-browser-tools
```

- Connector starts; Setup UI opens at `http://127.0.0.1:5055`.
- Load the Chrome extension once: `chrome://extensions` → Developer Mode → Load unpacked → select `chrome-extension/`.
- In Setup UI:
  - Examples tab: view sample `projects.json` and `.env` content.
  - Configure tab: paste/edit your `projects.json` (saved to project root).
  - Environment tab: paste/edit your `.env` (saved to `browser-tools-server/.env`).
  - Embeddings tab: check status / Reindex per project.
- After updates via npx, click Reload on the extension in `chrome://extensions`.

### 2) Local development

```bash
pnpm run setup
```

- Uses repo’s `chrome-extension/` as-is (no copy).
- Opens the same Setup UI (Examples, Configure, Environment, Embeddings).

## 📁 Configuration

- `projects.json` (single source of truth): stored at project root.
  - Required fields per project (examples shown in UI Examples tab):
    - `SWAGGER_URL`, `API_BASE_URL`, `AUTH_STORAGE_TYPE`, `AUTH_TOKEN_KEY`, optional `AUTH_ORIGIN`, optional `API_AUTH_TOKEN_TTL_SECONDS`.
  - Optional global: `DEFAULT_SCREENSHOT_STORAGE_PATH`.
- `.env`: stored at `browser-tools-server/.env`.
  - Embedding provider keys: `OPENAI_API_KEY` (and optional `OPENAI_EMBED_MODEL`) or `GEMINI_API_KEY` (and optional `GEMINI_EMBED_MODEL`).
  - Optional logging: `LOG_LEVEL=info`.

## 🔎 Embeddings

- Use Setup UI → Embeddings tab:
  - `GET /api/embed/status?project=<name>` for status
  - `POST /api/embed/reindex` with `{ project }` to rebuild
- Index is stored per-project in `.vectra/<project>`.

## 🔧 Health & Troubleshooting

- Identity: `GET /.identity` returns signature and version
- Health: `GET /connection-health` shows heartbeat and connection details
- If tools don’t respond, verify:
  - Server is running and extension is loaded (DevTools open on the tab)
  - Extension reloaded after npx updates

## 🧪 Notes

- `projects.json` must exist at project root for server/tools to resolve config.
- `.env` is always read/written in `browser-tools-server/.env`.
- npx overlays the packaged extension into `chrome-extension/` (skips `projects.json`, no backups). Local dev `pnpm run setup` skips copying entirely.

**Happy autonomous frontend development!**

Commit message:

node version set to 20 or plus

docs/SETUP_GUIDE.md, after:

**Note:** Keep Chrome DevTools (F12) open on your target tab when using browser/UI tools.

## 🚀 Quick Setup

### 1) Run with npx (recommended)

```bash
npx @winds-ai/autonomous-frontend-browser-tools
```

#### System requirements

- Node.js 20+ (or 22 LTS) is required. On Node 18, the npx launcher fails with `ReferenceError: File is not defined` because the global `File` Web API is missing.
- Chrome browser (for the DevTools extension).

#### Setup steps

- Connector starts; Setup UI opens at `http://127.0.0.1:5055`.
- Load the Chrome extension once: `chrome://extensions` → Developer Mode → Load unpacked → select `chrome-extension/`.
- In Setup UI:
  - Examples tab: view sample `projects.json` and `.env` content.
  - Configure tab: paste/edit your `projects.json` (saved to project root).
  - Environment tab: paste/edit your `.env` (saved to `browser-tools-server/.env`).
  - Embeddings tab: check status / Reindex per project.
- After updates via npx, click Reload on the extension in `chrome://extensions`.
- Ensure `node -v` reports ≥ 20.x before running the command.
- Click Save, then Close (UI stops; connector keeps running)

### 2) Local development

```bash
pnpm run setup
```

- Uses repo's `chrome-extension/` as-is (no copy).
- Opens the same Setup UI (Examples, Configure, Environment, Embeddings).

## 📁 Configuration

- `projects.json` (single source of truth): stored at project root.
  - Required fields per project (examples shown in UI Examples tab):
    - `SWAGGER_URL`, `API_BASE_URL`, `AUTH_STORAGE_TYPE`, `AUTH_TOKEN_KEY`, optional `AUTH_ORIGIN`, optional `API_AUTH_TOKEN_TTL_SECONDS`.
  - Optional global: `DEFAULT_SCREENSHOT_STORAGE_PATH`.
- `.env`: stored at `browser-tools-server/.env`.
  - Embedding provider keys: `OPENAI_API_KEY` (and optional `OPENAI_EMBED_MODEL`) or `GEMINI_API_KEY` (and optional `GEMINI_EMBED_MODEL`).
  - Optional logging: `LOG_LEVEL=info`.

## 🔎 Embeddings

- Use Setup UI → Embeddings tab:
  - `GET /api/embed/status?project=<name>` for status
  - `POST /api/embed/reindex` with `{ project }` to rebuild
- Index is stored per-project in `.vectra/<project>`.

## 🔧 Health & Troubleshooting

- Identity: `GET /.identity` returns signature and version
- Health: `GET /connection-health` shows heartbeat and connection details
- If tools don't respond, verify:
  - Server is running and extension is loaded (DevTools open on the tab)
  - Extension reloaded after npx updates

## 🧪 Notes

- `projects.json` must exist at project root for server/tools to resolve config.
- `.env` is always read/written in `browser-tools-server/.env`.
- npx overlays the packaged extension into `chrome-extension/` (skips `projects.json`, no backups). Local dev `pnpm run setup` skips copying entirely.

**Happy autonomous frontend development!**
